
# Summary
I was assigned column 2 on page 649 of Charlotte Perkins Stetson’s “The Yellow Wall-paper”. The purpose of this project was to code the specific text assigned to us using the software program Oxygen XML Editor, a Java application that allows the user to designate the application of a XSLT file to the current XML document. An XSLT file is a text file that provides rules an XML file should follow. It can be used for categorizing various parts of the XML file. In Oxygen, we coded our section of “The Yellow Wall-paper” to validate the TEI (Text Encoding Initiative), which develops and maintains a standard for the representation of texts in digital form. At first glance of Oxygen, I had trouble figuring out what I needed to code. After learning the code functions, such as coding the start of a new paragraph, the project became less difficult and more tedious because of the repetition of code functions. The point in this blog post is to reflect on my experience of working on the TEI project using Google Docs and Oxygen XML Editor. 

# Google Docs Planning
Before starting to code in Oxygen, we used Google Docs to highlight which features we were going to code in the assigned text. At first, I thought marking paragraph starts and other various features was pointless. However, during the coding part of the project, I found it was very helpful to do because I didn’t have to spend more time reading through the entire text checking if I coded every feature. In other words, using google docs before coding any kind of text (even this blog) is a great way to plan. After I finished highlighting, I moved to Oxygen XML Editor to start coding the text. 

# Oxygen XML Editor
Apart from coding the title, author, and editor that everyone in class also had to code, the only features that were unique to column 2 of page 649 were paragraph starts, quotes, and italics. Since there were only three different features that pertained to my text, I found it much easier to code once I learned how each feature was coded because I just had to repeat the code function such as ```<q>”text”</q>``` for quotes. When using Oxygen, I decided to use the “Toggle Line Wrap” option under the Document Edit tab because it made it much easier to see all of the text without having to scroll back and forth to the left and right. What this option does is allow the long text that proceeds off the page to the right to be redirected to the next line without having to use the enter button. Although I have previous experience coding in programs such as R Studio, I found this project very helpful in my desire to develop my coding skills.

# Reflection
When I first began using Oxygen XML Editor, I worried about struggling because I thought I would only have a few weeks to learn a new software program to code. However, I completed the project much faster than I expected, which made it enjoyable for me. With the in-class help from Professor Stover who answered my questions, I was never frustrated with coding during this project.
